# S-cCDNet
Semantic-centric change detection framework
The semantic change detection (SCD) task aims to detect “from-to” change types of land cover occurring over time in registered multi-temporal remote sensing images. The specific geographical characteristics of land cover will introduce mixed impact for this task. The spatiotemporal heterogeneity of land cover categories introduces significant intra-category variance, while the spatiotemporal correlation of land cover distributions provides a reference for land cover change. However, for limited change samples, previous works encountered challenges in modeling fine-grained semantic changes due to a lack of geographical consideration. In this paper, we propose a semantic-centric change detection framework (S-cCDNet) to model “from-to” semantic changes by considering two geographical characteristics: spatiotemporal heterogeneity and spatiotemporal correlation. To overcome spatiotemporal heterogeneity, we devised an intra-temporal pixel-to-prototype (pix2pro) and inter-temporal prototype-to-prototype (pro2pro) contrast strategy. This strategy employs category prototypes as anchors for pixel-wise features to beget a disentangled semantic encoder (DSE) with intra-class compactness and inter-class separability, which provides an accurate knowledge foundation for representing semantic changes. To enhance spatiotemporal correlation, we designed a semantic-centric implicit change transformer (S-cICformer) to progressively model long-range context dependencies of semantic changes in a semantic-aware manner. In addition, a direction-agnostic SCD loss is proposed as a regularization term to prevent overfitting of semantic change directions and temporal change sequences. Comprehensive experiments conducted on two large-scale SCD datasets with different scales and scenes have demonstrated the superiority of the proposed S-cCDNet.
